Section A

Attempt Any Two Question

1
Create web form for book search catalog. The form should contain a dropdown defining search type, a text box for search keyword, a radio button for download type true or false, now write PHP script to store data from the form into database table and also retrive the results from stored table in a new page.

2
How can you create objects in Javascript? Create a HTML page containing a division with image and its description in paragraph. Write a javascript function to change the value of description in the paragraph during onmouseover and mouseout event on the image.

3
How positioning of HTML elements can be done using CSS? Create a HTML page with a div with some content and two paragraph with some contents having id p1 and p2. Write external CSS for the div tag having fixed position with border style solid and width 2px. the p1 should have relative position. The font type of p1 should be Arial and color should be red. The p2 have absolute position with top 0px and left 200px.

Section B

Attempt Any Eight Questions

4
What is HTTP protocol? Define HTTP Request and Response.

5
Create a HTML page with tags header, article and footer. Insert alink containing mail to info@iost.edu.np in the footer tag. Set the keywords “iost”, “csit” using Meta tag in the page.

6
How jQuery animate can be used to create custom animation? Write syntax with sample script.

7
What is the use of JSON? How can you parse a JSON, illustrate with an example.

8
What is XML? Create an XML file containing records of employee having elements of simple and complex types.

9
How XSD of a XML file is created? Illustrate with an example.

10
How can you define variables in PHP? Define any two variable of string types and display their results after concatenation.

11
How web pages can be made responsive using media queries ? Illustrate with an example.

12
Why inline frames are used? Create a HTML page containing iframe within a paragraph. The iframe have source to http://www.tuiost.edu.np and its height and width are 200px and 400px respectively.
