Group A

Answer any two questions

1
What is the use of XML?Create a XML file with simple type and complex type elements. Write its equivalent DTD.

2
Create an HTML file containing form elements textbox for username, password field and a checkbox for hobbies. Now write javascript function for the form validation. You should validate for username to be empty, password should be of length at least 5, and the check box should be checked.

3
How database connection is created in PHP? Write a PHP program to create a form and insert values in to the database table. The form should contain at least two input fields.

Group B

Answer any EIGHT questions

4
Differentiate Web 1.0 from Web 2.0.

5
Write a HTML script to generate following list of items;

1. Coffee : I. Black coffee II. Green coffee

2. Tea A: Black tea B. Green tea

6
Create a HTML page containing a div having id “dv1”. The div should contain canvas element. The id of canvas should be “mycanvas”. The height and width of canvas should be 200 and 300.

7
What are the usages of class and id selectors in CSS? Illustrate with example.

8
What is word-wrap property in CSS? Write an HTML script to illustrate the word-wrap property.

9
Describe the jQuery Animate() method. Write an html script to create a div with id “mydiv”. The position of the div should be set to absolute. Now show the use of animate method to the div element to right by 300px.

10
What is XML Namespace? How it is used to avoid element name conflict in XML? Justify with an example.

11
How can you define class and objects in PHP? Write a PHP script to create class and its object.

12
How can you define array in PHP? Write a PHP function to create an array of type integer and print its elements.
