SECTION A

Attempt any TWO question.

1
Describe the rules for creating XML document. Create a XML file with simple type and elements with attribute and nested elements. Write its equivalent XSD.

2
Create an HTML file containing form with textbox, select and radio button. Now write a javascript function for validating the form elements. Validate textbox for required, select field should have some value selected and radio button should be checked.

3
Write a PHP program to create a form. Create an insertdb() method to insert the form vlaues into a database table and display() to display the database table value.

SECTION B

Attempt any EIGHT question.

4
Describe client server architecture with its types.

5
Write a HTML script to create a table with three rows and three columns. The second row third column should contain a text “TU” with link set to www.tu.edu.np . The hieght of second row should be set to 200px.

6
What is onload event in HTML? Write an HTML script that displays alert message “Hello Nepal” in onload event.

7
How internal and external CSS differ from each other. Illustrate with example.

8
How can you define array in javascript ? Create an array Fruit with its elements “apple”, “banana”, “mango”, “grape” and print the array.

9
How can you transform XML document into HTML using XSLT. Support your answer with an example.

10
Write a PHP function add that takes two arguments as an input and return their sum.

11
Define cookie. Write a PHP program to create and retrive a cookie.

12
What is text-overflow property in CSS ? How can you use clip and ellipseis in text-overflow ?
