Section A

Attempt any TWO questions

1
Define CSS. What is the use of CSS shadow effects? Write an HTML script with proper CSS as per the following description. Display a text content “CSIT Exam” in a div with id div1. The text should have a horizontal shadow of 3px and a vertical shadow of 2px. The shadow color should be green. Also set the horizontal and vertical shadow of the div to 10px respectively with the shadow color of div to blue.

2
What are jQuery selectors? Explain jQuery callback and chaining effects with appropriate jQuery scripts.

3
What is the use of XML? Create a XML file having complex type elements containing other elements and text. At least one element should contain an attribute. Similarly, there should be elements containing string, integer and date type values. Now write the equivalent XSD for the XML.

Section B

Attempt any EIGHT questions

4
Define web clients and web servers with examples.

5
Write a HTML script using audio tag. Set the autoplay, preload and loop properties to appropriate values.

6
Write HTML script to demonstrate the onkeydown and onkeypress events.

7
Write a HTML script with proper JavaScript that will take an input from prompt box and display the input as output using the alert box.

8
Create an HTML page containing three paragraphs p1, p2 and p3 with some contents. Write internal CSS to set the position of p1 to relative, p2 to float and p3 to absolute.

9
What is the use of alert box? Write a JavaScript program to show the use of RegExp object.

10
Write a PHP program to demonstrate the concept of inheritance.

11
Write a PHP program to show insertion of multiple data into a database table.

12
Create a PHP form with form elements. Write a program to perform form validation. Use your own assumptions for the validation.
