Section A

Attempt Two Questions

1
Define queuing system. Explain the Kendall’s notation for queuing system? What are the various performance measures in single server queuing System? Explain which of them determine system stability and how?

2
Define true random numbers and pseudo random numbers with its properties . The sequence of numbers 0.64, 0.50, 0.25, 0.58,0.72, 0.90 has been generated. Use KS Test with Da=0.050 => 0512 to determine if the hypothesis that they are uniformly distributed on interval [o, 1] can be rejected.

3
What do you understand by dynamic mathematical model? Explain with example. Differentiate it with static mathematical model.

Section B

Attempt Eight Questions.

4
Describe the phases in simulation.

5
Explain the concept of discrete event simulation. Explain poisson’s arrival pattern.

6
Explain Monte Carlo simulation method with an example?

7
Define the terms verification, calibration, validation and accreditation of models.

8
Use Multiplicative congruential method to generate a sequence of random numbers with X=7,a=11 m=16.

9
Why is estimation methods used in simulation? Explain.

10
Explain the importance of elimination of initial bias during simulation.

11
Workers come to a supply store at the rate of one every 6(+-) 2 minute. Their requisitions are processed by one of the two clerks who take 8 (+-) 2 minutes for each requisition. The requisitions are then passed to a single storekeeper who fills them one at a time, taking 6(+-)3 minutes for each. Draw GPSS Block diagram to simulate The above problem for 100 requisitions.

12
Write short notes on (any two):
a. Digital analog simulator
b. Simulation tools
