SECTION A

Attempt any TWO question.

1
Why is it necessary to analyze the simulation output. Explain different estimation method which are used in simulatiom output analysis.

2
Consider that a machine tool in a manufacturing shop is turning out parts at the rate of two every 5 minutes. As they are finished, the parts go to an inspector, who takes 5±2 minutes to examine each one and reject about 15% of the parts. Now develop a block diagram and write the code for simulating the above problem using GPSS, and also explain the function of each block used in the block diagram in detail.

3
Explain the independenceand uniformity property of random number. For the following sample of random numbers, perform test for independence using K-S test. (D0.05,10 = 0.41)

0.35, 0.77, 0.12, 0.33, 0.88, 0.45, 0.19, 0.25, 0.91, 0.54

SECTION B

Attempt any EIGHT question.

4
Difference between static physical and dynamic physical models.

5
Describe different phases of simulation study with help of flowchart.

6
Explain markov chain with suitable example. What are diffrernt application areas of markov chain?

7
Explain itetrative process of calibrating a simulation model.

8
Describe the process of model building, verification and validation in detail with example.

9
Define traffic intensity and server utilization. Write down the Kendall’s notation for queuing system with example.

10
Define traffic intensity and server utilization. Write down the Kendall’s notation for queuing system with example.

11
What is analog computer ? Explain with suitable example.

12
Write short notes:

Queuing discipline
Random variate
