Section A

Attempt Any Two Question .

1
What is system development life cycle (SDLC)? Explain each phase of SDLC in detail

2
Assume monetary benefits of an information system of $70,000 the first year and increasing benefits of $10,000 a year for the next four years, one-time development costs of $90,000, and recurring costs of $40,000 per year over the duration of the system’s life. The discount rate for the company was 1! percent. Using a five-year time horizon, calculate the net present value of these costs and benefits. Also, calculate the overall return on investment and then present a breakeven analysis. At what point does breakeven occur?

3
What is conceptual data model? How do you gather information for conceptual data modeling?
Draw ab ER diagram for a retail store in a mall which sells different items to its customers.

Section B

Attempt Eight Question.

4
What is system analysis and design? Why is it important for developing information systems?

5
Why do we need CASE tool during system development? What are different components of
CASE tool?

6
What is project management? Explain some activities and skills of a project manager.

7
Explain the process initialing and planning information system development project in brief.

8
How can you use prototyping for determining system prototyping requirements? Compare throwaway with evolutionary prototyping.

9
What is the purpose of database design? Compare logical design with physical design.

10
What is testing? Explain any four different testing techniques.

11
What is class diagram? Explain class diagram with suitable example.

12
Write short notes on:
a. Agile development
b. Decision tree