Section A

Attempt any TWO questions.

1
Differentiate between dynamic programming and memorization. Compute the shortest path between every pairs in the following graphs using Floyd Warshal algorithm.

- Hamro CSIT

2
What is the worst case of quick sort and how does randomize quick sort handle this problem? Sort the data { -2, 4, -3, 6, 12, 10, 11, 13, 9 } using quick sort.

3
Does greedy algorithm guarantee optimal solution? Solve the Fractional knapsack problem to find maximum loot from given information.

Item 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Value 12 10 20 15 2 3 50
Weight (kgs) 2 1 3 2 12 10 1
Section B

Attempt any EIGHT questions.

4
Given a set A=(5,7,10,12,15,18,20}, find the subset that sum to 35 using backtracking.

5
Solve the following recurrence relations using master’s method.

(a)
T
(
n
)
=
2
T
(
n
2
)

- n
  3
  ,
  n
  > 1

T
(
n
)
=
1
,
n
=
1

(b)
T
(
n
)
=
2
T
(
n
4
)

- 1
  ,
  n
  > 1

T
(
n
)
=
1
,
n
=
1

6
Write an algorithm to find the nth fibonacci number with its time and space complexity.

7
Define order statistics problem. Find the edit distance between “cat” and “car” using dynamic programming.

8
Discuss about recursion and backtracking. Analyze the complexity of Miller Rabin Randomized Primality test.

9
Solve the following linear equation using Chinese Remainder Theorem.

x = 1 MOD 3

x = 2 MOD 5

x = 0 MOD 7

10
Explain the approximation algorithm for vertex cover of a connected graph with an example.

11
State cooks theorem. Discuss about problem reducibility.

12
Write short notes on:

a) Big Oh, Big Omega, Big theta

b) Class P, Class NP and NP-Complete
